# ASTEROIDS

A remake of the 1979 arcade classic Asteroids. This project was created during a two-day MVP (minimum viable product) sprint at hackreactor. The original project can be found [here](https://arcane-cliffs-76702.herokuapp.com/). It includes a working implementation of the game, a suedo login process, and a highscore board/database. 

## Requirements

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org) necessary for running scripts and installing dependencies via 'npm'.  
[postgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) necessary for storing scores.

## Installation/Setup  
1. Clone this  repository or download its zip.
2. navigate inside the directory using the console
3. Install project dependencies using legacy-peer-deps with `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`
4. Either build the project with production settings using `npm run build`, or with development settings using `npm run react-dev`
5. serve the resulting build on `localhost:3005` using `npm start`

## Usage

The public version of the game and highscores can be seen [here](https://arcane-cliffs-76702.herokuapp.com/).  
* The game cannot be accessed until the user goes through a psuedo-login process to gather a name for the scoreboard. Enter a name in the prompted input, and click start in the game viewer.   
* The game will begin and the player must avoid or destroy the meteors. The score increases for every meteor destroyed. If a meteor collides with the player the game ends and the player is promted to either restart or submit their score.  
* If the player submits a score it is stored in the highscore database and presented on the top scores if it is in the top 10.  
* If the player submits their score the game viewer reverts to the title screen. If the player clicks restart the score will not be submitted and the gameplay restarts.

__Constrols:__
| Key | Control |
|-----|---------|
| `w` | Forward thrust |
| `a` | Spin counter-clockwise |
| `d` | Spin clockwise |
| `space` | Shoot |

If you'd like to make changes to the code. Clone the repo, run `npm install`, then run `npm run react-dev`. This will generate an express server hosting all the files in the `dist` folder (localhost:3005 by default).

The `dist` folder is auto-generated by babel/Webpack. Changes to the source code can be made in the `client`, `server`, or `database` folders.

## Changelog/Roadmap

August 2021 - Version 1.0 Released

__Future Plans__
* Add authorization
* Change to allow anyone to play the game but authorization required to interact with highscore board
* Allow players to change the scoreboard to display thier scores, scores outside the top 10, ect...
* Migrate to mongoDB and add geolocation query's to sort by location
* Change meteors size to vary.
* When larger meteors are hit the break into smaller mneteors
* Add an alien spaceship enemy
* Add powerups (rapid fire, exploding missiles, ect...)
* Increase difficulty as time/score increase


## Credits
[Build a space shooter with phaser 3](https://learn.yorkcs.com/2019/02/06/build-a-space-shooter-with-phaser-3/)
